# Substition-Encryption
Test of a subsitution cipher, plan on implementing more characters in a future project.


## Description of Exercise Rules
### Credit for Exercise goes to Charles Carter 

**Project Description:** <br>

This  programming  exercise  is  a  substantial  assignment.   The  assignment  is  to  write  a  program  with  will encrypt and decrypt messages.  It has two sections, one to encrypt a message, and the second to decrypt the same message.  Each part has three sections, each one more difficult than the last.  Even though this is more difficult than your previous assignments, you have all you need to complete this successfully.  Just beprepared to think very hard.  The code is more difficult than in the previous exercises, but the thinking partis much harder. Each letter of the alphabet has a numbered place, from 1 to 26.  A = 1, B = 2, C = 3, and so on to Z =26.  Messages are encrypted by substituting each letter in the plain text message for another letter, which is determined by a key.  Encrypted messages are decrypted by substituting each letter in the encoded message with the plain text key, again depending on the key.  This is explained more fully below. In the English speaking world, alphabetical letters are encoded by ACSII. You can look up the ASCII table  to  get  the  numerical  code  for  each  letter.   For  example,  an  uppercase  “A”  has  the  ASCII  code  65, while the lower case “a” has the ASCII code 97.  When letters are read by the computer, they are internally converted to the ASCII code.  C# allows you to cast an alphabetical character to an integer, and cast an integer to a character provided that the integer is convertable to a character.  In practice, this means that you  are  restricted  to  integers  between  65  and  90  for  upper  case  characters,  and  97  to  122  for  lower  case characters. Finally, users will enter invalid characters in their plain text message, such as blank spaces, numerical characters (we will not use numbers in this program), punctuation marks, etc.  You will have to delete all these non-alphabetical characters.  Part of the challenge is to “clean” the text the user enters by deleting all non-alphabetical characters (including digits, spaces, and punctuation) and convert all lower case characters to upper case characters.
